== Getting ready to play

* Each player is given a starting tile, which they place on the table in front
  of them, and 2 counters in the color of their choice. One counter is placed
  on the starting tile and the other is placed on the bottom left corner of the
  scoring board.

* The 54 building tiles are put in the bag and mixed thoroughly.

* Put the building market in the middle of the table and the scoring rack on
  the table somewhere accessible.

* 4 building tiles are taken at random from the bag and placed in order on the
  four numbered squares of the building market, beginning with square 1.

* Each player is given a tile reserve bard which he places in full view in from
  on him. The points table on the top of the card shows the quantity of each
  type of building tile and how many points can be won with each type in every
  scoring round.

* The two scoring cards are taken from the pack of money cards and put to one
  side momentarily; the rest of the pack is shuffled.

* Each player is now given their starting money by taking one card at a time
  from the money pile and placing each card face-up in front of a player until
  the total is 20 or more (the currency is not important at this stage). The
  next player is then given their money. When all the players have been given
  their money, they pick up their cards. From now on each player's money is
  kept secret.

* The player with the fewest cards starts. If two or more players are equal,
  the player with the lowest amount of money starts. If the players are still
  equal the youngest player starts.

* Finally, 4 additional money cards are laid face-up in the middle of the table
  next to the building market.

* The rest of the money cards are divided into five roughtly equal piles. Place
  the "1st Scoring Round" card into the second pile and the "2nd Scoring Round"
  card into the fourth pile. Then pul the piles on top of one another again
  with the fifth pile on the bottom, then the fourth, the third, the second and
  finally the first at the very top. The entire pile is then placed face down
  next to the building market.

== How to play

Play proceeds in a clockwise direction, beginning with the starting player.

The active player must do one of three things:

* Take money
* Buy and position a building tile
* Redesign their own Alhambra

After a player's turn is over, any money cards and building tiles which have
been removed are replaced with new ones so that there are always 4 of each.

== Taking money

A player can take any one of the money cards from those lying face-up, or
several money cards if they do not add up to more than 5 (the currency does not
matter).

== Buying and positioning building tiles

=== Buying the tiles

A player can buy a building tile from the building market. He must pay at least
the price shown on the tile and use the currency displayed next to the tile in
the building market. But take notice -- no change is given!

The money used to pay for the tile is placed on a discard pile next to the
building market.

If you can pay the exact amount of money, you receive an additional turn and
you can then decide once more which of the three options you would like to
take.

During your turn, no new tiles are placed on the building market. It is only at
the end of your turn that the empty squares are refilled with new tiles.

It is therefor possible to carry out a maximum of 5 actions during your turn
(paying the exact amount four times and then either taking money or redesigning
your Alhambra).

=== Positioning the tiles

You can either 1) add your new building tile to your Alhambra or 2) place it on
your reserve board. You can have as many building tiles on your reserve board
as you wish.

== Rules for building your Alhambra

You must build your Alhambra according to the following rules:

* All building tiles must be oriented in the same direction as your starting
  tile (i.e. all roofs must point upwards).

* Adjoining sides must be the same. For example, both tiles must have walls or
  both tiles must not have walls.

* You must be able to reach each new building tile "on foot" from the starting
  tile without crossing a wall and without moving off the tiles.

* Each new tile must be joined to your Alhambra by at least one side (i.e. it
  cannot be placed diagonally at the corners).

* You must not leave any "spaces" in you Alhambra (i.e. an empty area
  surrounded on all sides by building tiles).

== Redesigning your Alhambra

There are three ways in which you can redesign your Alhambra:

* You can take a building tile from your reserve board and add it to your
  Alhambra.

* You can remove a building tile from your Alhambra and put it on your reserve
  board.

* You can exchange a building tile on your reserve board for one in your
  Alhambra. If you do this, the new building tile in your Alhambra must go in
  exactly the same place as the one you remove.

When you are redesigning your Alhambra you must still follow the building
rules. You are not allowed to remove the starting tile or exchange it for
another tile.

== At the end of your turn

It is only at the end of your turn (after any redesigning you may have done)
that you add the building tiles you have purchsed to your Alhambra or place
them on your reserve board. You can add the newly purchased building tiles in
any order you wish.

When your turn is over, play proceeds clockwise to the next player. Before the
next player decides what actions to take, any money cards or building tiles
which have been removed are replaced with new ones, so that there are again
four cards and four building tiles displayed. If you reach the end of the money
cards, the discarded money is shuffled and placed face down to make a new pile.

== Scoring

There are 3 scoring rounds during the game. The first two take place when the
scoring cards are drawn from the pile of money cards. The third and final
scoring round takes place at the end of the game.

When a scoring card is drawn, it is put to one side (withdrawn from the game)
and the next card or cards are drawn so that there are again 4 money cards. But
before the next player starts his turn, the scores are calculated.

In each scoring round, points are awarded to whoever has the most of each type
of building. Players are also given points for the length of the wall around
their Alhambras at the end of the game.

=== Points for having the most of each type of building:

Points are awarded for having the most of each of the different types of
buildings. The number of points a player receives depends on what type of
building it is.

In each case, the player with the most buildings is awarded the points for 1st
place indicated on the scoring card next to the name of the building.

Only the players with the most buildings of each type receive points when the
"1st Scoring Round" card is drawn.

Points are awarded in the later rounds as follows: in the "2nd Scoring Round"
(which takes place when the "2nd Scoring Round" card is drawn), points are
awarded to the players with the highest number and second highest number of
building tiles of each type.

If several players tie, the points for the respective places are shared. Points
are always rounded down.

The 3rd round of scoring takes place at the end of the game; points are then
also awarded to the players with the third highest number of buildings of each
type as shown in the example and on the points table on the tile reserve board.

Important: building tiles on the reserve boards are NOT counted toward players'
scores.

=== Points for the wall around your Alhambra

As well as points for buildings, players are also awarded points for the
longest connected wall around their Alhambras.

Each side of a tile with a wall segment on it counts for 1 point.

No points are awarded for walls wich are back-to-back, i.e. internal walls.

The points warded to a player are recording on the scoring track. Each player
moves their counter one space forward for each point that they have been
awarded.

== End of the game

The game end when -- at the end of a player's turn -- there are not enough
building tiles left in the bag to bring the total up to four again.

The remaining building tiles from the building market are given to the players
who have the most money of the respective currency in their hand (it does not
matter how much the building costs). If two or more players have the same
amount of money then that building tile remains on the building market.
Building tiles given to players in this way may then be added to their
Alhambras in accordance with the building rules.

The third and final scoring round now takes place.

The player who leads on the scoring board after this last round has won the
game. If two players are tied, the game is a draw.

== Special rules for playing with just two players

The normal alhambra rules apply with the following changes:

* The pack contains three of each money card; one of each is removed, i.e. only
  72 money cards are used.

* There is an imaginary third player. Let us call him Matt. Matt does not build
  an Alhambra but does collect building tiles. Matt does not have any turns.

* At the beginning of the game 6 building tiles are drawn randomly from the bag
  and put to one side for Matt -- in full view of both players.

* In the scoring rounds Matt is awarded points for having the most of any of
  the different kinds of building but not for an external wall.

* Directly after the first scoring round, Matt is given 6 more tiles which are
  randomly drawn from the bag and placed with his others.

* After the 2nd scoring round Matt is given more building tiles. This time he
  is not necessarily given 6 but is instead given a third of the tiles
  remaining in the bag (rounded down).

Only one rule is different for two players: whenever they buy a building tile,
they can not only add it to their Alhambra or place it on their reserve board,
but they can also give the building tile to Matt.
